---
title:  "Day 3 - Lynis - 100 tools in 100 days!"
excerpt: "In this post, I will show you the tool Lynis and how it works."
mathjax: true
layout: post
categories:
    -- github
    -- website
---

1 . Introduction
<br>
2 . My Setup
<br>
3 . What is Lynis?
<br>
4 . Why use Lynis?
<br>
5 . How to use Lynis?
<br>
6 . Summary

---

## This post is designed to teach you what the tool *Lynis* accomplishes and how to use it.

---

### 1. **Introduction**

Welcome to the third blog post of 100 tools in 100 days.<br> 
In this post and concurrent posts, I will introduce you to a tool in Kali or Parrot Linux. <br>
I will discuss use cases for the tool.<br> 
Finally, I will show a quick how-to to get you started using it. 

---

### 2. **My Setup**

For running the Lynis tool, I used Kali Linux in a VmWare Workstation 16 Player virtualized environment. 

---

### 3. **What is Lynis?**

Lynis is a security and auditing tool. 

The creators have made a free and open source solution as well as a paid enterprise solution.

Lynis allows for a user or administrator to perform a local based in-depth scan of a system to find vulnerabilities, perform a health check and find weaknesses in configuration.

Lynis only works on Linux based systems, so if you have other systems to scan you may want to consider other solutions. 

Find Lynis at the creators GitHub [here](https://github.com/CISOfy/lynis) or their website [here](https://cisofy.com/documentation/lynis/get-started/).

---

### 4. **Why use Lynis?**

For personal use:

- Determine weaknesses in your home setup.

- Conduct a regularly scheduled system health checkup. 

For enterprise solutions:

- Perform audits based on specific compliance requirements. 

- Apply suggested system hardening from the tool post audit. 

---

### 5. **How to use Lynis?**

**On any Linux system**
    
    Step 1: 
    Clone Lynis from GitHub:

    git clone https://github.com/CISOfy/lynis.git

<br>

    Step 2:
    Change directory into the lynis folder that was cloned.

<br>

    Step 3:
    Run Lynis in system audit mode:
    ./lynis audit system

<br>

**Results:**<br>
The results of the Lynis audit are displayed in your terminal window. They can also be retrieved at the log file location shown.


### 6. **Summary**

I covered briefly how to use the interactive function of the tool Lynis. <br>
I discussed when and why to use this password wordlist generator. <br>
Additionally, I covered briefly when Lynis wouldn't be useful.<br>
More resources can be found on the Lynis GitHub [here](https://github.com/CISOfy/lynis).<br>

Thanks for reading!<br>
If you have suggestions for what tool to cover next, [contact](mailto:matthew.o.mccorkle@gmail.com) me!