---
title:  "Day 6 - Dirb - 100 tools in 100 days!"
excerpt: "In this post, I will show you the tool Dirb and how it works."
mathjax: true
layout: post
categories:
    -- github
    -- website
---

1 . Introduction
<br>
2 . My Setup
<br>
3 . What is Dirb?
<br>
4 . Why use Dirb?
<br>
5 . How to use Dirb?
<br>
6 . Summary

---

## This post is designed to teach you what the tool *Dirb* accomplishes and how to use it.

---

### 1. **Introduction**

Welcome to the sixth blog post of 100 tools in 100 days.<br> 
In this post and concurrent posts, I will introduce you to a tool in Kali or Parrot Linux. <br>
I will discuss use cases for the tool.<br> 
Finally, I will show a quick how-to to get you started using it. 

---

### 2. **My Setup**

For running the Dirb tool, I used Kali Linux in a VmWare Workstation 16 Player virtualized environment.

For my victim website, I used the Metasploitable2 server on a VMWare Workstation 16 Player virtualized environment.

- You could use Dirb on Hack The Box rooms and some Try Hack Me rooms if you do not have resources for setting up Metasploitable 2.

---

### 3. **What is Dirb?**

Dirb is a command line web content scanner that enumerates directories and objects using a dictionary style attack.

Find more information about Dirb [here](http://dirb.sourceforge.net/).

---

### 4. **Why use Dirb?**

 
Discovery! Dirb allows a user to discover pages and objects inside of a website.

Dirb allows a developer or pentester to enumerate the directory and objects of a website.

Most importantly this can help developers find pages that are accessible to the public that should not be visible. 



## <span style="color:red">***Disclaimer***</span>:<br>
**Dirb scans directories of a website, using this on a website you are not authorized to will create alerts and possible punishment in some jurisdictions. This is an active reconnaisance tool.**

---

### 5. **How to use Dirb?**

    Step 1: 
    You need to sign up for an activation code through the Dirb website.




### 6. **Summary**

This blog post showed you a very brief overview of what Dirb is, and some of its capabilities.

We briefly discussed how to set up and run Dirb on a Windows device. Though it can run on nearly any equipment.

I suggest you perform a more in-depth analysis of your vulnerabilities by performing some of the other scans Dirb has available.  

More resources can be found on the Dirb website [here](https://docs.tenable.com/Dirb.htm).<br>

Thanks for reading!<br>

If you have suggestions for what tool to cover next, [contact](mailto:matthew.o.mccorkle@gmail.com) me!