---
title:  "Day 26 - PDFCrack - 100 tools in 100 days!"
excerpt: "In this post, I will show you the tool PDFCrack and how it works."
mathjax: true
layout: post
categories:
    -- github
    -- website
---

1 . Introduction
<br>
2 . My Setup
<br>
3 . What is PDFCrack?
<br>
4 . Why use PDFCrack?
<br>
5 . How to use PDFCrack?
<br>
6 . Summary

---

## This post is designed to introduce you to the tool PDFCrack.

# <span style="color:red">***Disclaimer***</span>: **Please only use PDFCrack for professional and educational reasons. Do not use this tool for nefarious or malicious reasons.**

---

### 1. **Introduction**

Welcome to the **twenty-sixth** blog post of 100 tools in 100 days.<br> 

Find **PDFCrack** here: [http://pdfcrack.sourceforge.net/](http://pdfcrack.sourceforge.net/).

---

### 2. **My Setup**

For running the PDFCrack tool, I used Kali Linux in a VMware Workstation 16 Player virtualized environment.

---

### 3. **What is PDFCrack?**

PDFCrack is a tool to crack password protected PDF's. All you need is a protected PDF and a wordlist of passwords to attempt cracking the PDF. Of course, not all password protected PDF's use weak passwords so this may not always work in your favor. 

---

### 4. **Why use PDFCrack?**

Example 1: You worked on a reasearch project many years ago and it is time to clean up / remove the data collected during the project as it was considered personally identifiable and is now within the compliance window of deletion. You may have some data in a password protected PDF but you forgot the password and want to verify the file contains data that requires deletion before deleting the file. 

You could use PDFCrack to attempt to find the password of your PDF file.

Example 2: You are a penetration tester and found password protected documents during a test. You can use PDFCrack to potentially unlock the document and observe contents that may benefit you during the rest of the testing. 


---

### 5. **How to use PDFCrack?**

    Step 1:
    You need a password protected PDF so head over to:

    https://www.ilovepdf.com/protect-pdf

    Submit a PDF for password protection and download that PDF. 

    I would not submit legitimately sensitive documents to any online source for processing, just use a non sensitive PDF.

<br>

    Step 2:
    Verify the PDF is password protected by trying to open it and you should see a password prompt.

<br>



### 6. **Summary**



I hope you enjoyed this blog post.

Thanks for reading!<br>

If you have suggestions for what tool to cover next, [contact](mailto:matthew.o.mccorkle@gmail.com) me!
