---
title:  "Part 3 - NAHBP : Not Another Honeypot Blog Post"
excerpt: "<b>Part 3 of running a T-Pot Honeypot</b> <br>
9. What would I do differently next time?<br>

10. Summary<br>

11. What did I learn?<br>
"
mathjax: true
layout: post
categories:
    -- github
    -- website

---
### [Part 1:](https://matthewomccorkle.github.io/honeypot-1/)

### [Part 2:](https://matthewomccorkle.github.io/honeypot-2/)

### [Part 3:](https://matthewomccorkle.github.io/honeypot-3/) << *You are here!*

---

9 . What would I do differently next time?
<br>
10 . Summary
<br>
11 . What did I learn?

---

#### This blog is designed to give some background information on honeypots, and the results of running T-Pot for 48 hours.

#### This series is broken into 3 parts.

---

# 9. What would I do differently next time?
Next time I run a honeypot I will implement a intrusion detection system to create alerts of specific event types.

I would use SNORT likely as it is free, open source, and versatile.

I would also implement a secondary server to run a Splunk instance and capture the SNORT alerts as well as the honeypot logs.

---

# 10. Summary

I ran a honeypot called T-Pot for 48 hours using an AWS instance. 

I received many attacks on all 22 honeypots operating vulnerable services. 

I received an attack that scored a 10.0 on the CVSS, a true compromise of the CIA triad. 

Most of the attacks were bots, one bot connected via SSH, ran commands, and left within 1.13 seconds. Speedy!

Despite running my vulnerable honeypot in Bahrain, I did not see any attacks outside of what I expected based solely on geographical location. 

I found my last name inside a rabbit hole from an attack (no it wasn't a VM escape / personalized attack), see that here on [part 2](https://matthewomccorkle.github.io/honeypot-2/).

---

# 11. What did I learn?

1. I learned how the Elastic and Kibana system work. 
   
   a. This led to learning a different search and analysis method that was outside of my Splunk knowledge.

2. There are *so many* bots on the internet. Do they struggle with captcha's like I do?

3. I learned how to setup a blog site using Github. 
   
   a. This led to learning some Jekyll language.

   b. I learned markdown to format the blog to appear as you see it.

   c. This taught me how commits and pulls work on Github.

   d. I learned markdown just so I could make a blog that is free, open source, without paywalls and do not require you to login to read. 


---

If you made it this far thank you 🙌! If you want to know more about honeypots, AWS, Linode, or anything information security, please reach out to me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthewomccorkle/) or via [E-Mail](mailto:matthew.o.mccorkle@gmail.com).
   
